
Object 1- Ottawa Directory
Attempt 1- After downloading Trnio as my first photogammetry tool, I used the only historic Ottawa object I own, 
readily available on my bookcase. 
The tutorial video on Trnio website gave some tips, similar to the ones discussed in class. Use good lighting, get
different angles, keep an even distance from the object. Don't do transparent, shiny, moving or sinewy objects, but 
aslo not anything too plain. Despite the tutorial advising not to do a simple object, I decided to try my city 
directory, a plain brown book, just to try it out.
It turned out very well. There was plently of light from my window, so the cover was illuminated and the writing
on the cover is legible in the model. I had the book spine in the shadow, so that writing is not legible. but it 
was able to pick up on a water mark that exists on the pages along the top of the directory. 
the model included my bed sheets, and when looking underneath the model, it is hollow, with a reverse of the cover
visible. I'm not sure how to remove the base that my object rests on.
I'm going to place it on a small tbale in the middle of the room to get more even light and steady photo-taking 
around the object.
Attempt 2- This second attempt has shown me how well my first one went. This model's edges were not crisp like 
the first- the top blended into the white table, and the spine bulged out. It also picked up the carpet, but confused
its placement, putting some of it under the table, some around the table, and some pieces of carpet suspended in 
air around the directory. I'm not sure what went wrong. I took twice the amount of photos than the first (25, 13),
perhaps it was too much information?
Attempt 3- I took less photos, kept the angle steady, and it turned out worse. It seems some movement vertically is 
needed to get the angles right. the parts the camera did not capture were either voids or connected directly to the 
table underneath it. 

About The Object- Why Choose a Book?
I like the directory as an object though- at first I was worried it was too plain as visual historical material, because 
its useful and interesting qualities come from the text it holds inside. However, I believe there is something in 
the abstraction of this purpose. By removing access to its text (as a digital model) I'm forcing the audience to 
reconsider the directory as a historical object- not for information, but as information. Typically published works are
analyzed historically for the style, content and context of the author's work, but in the absence of the text, the audience 
must consider the Directory itself. This can lead to questions about the utility and access of the book, the places 
it may have travelled, the process of its production, and most interestingly, the meaning it may have held over time. 
