About The Object- Why Choose a Book?

I like the directory as an object to be the subject of a digital production. At first I was worried it was too plain 
and not useful as digital historical material, because its useful and interesting qualities tend to come from the 
text held within it far more than its shell. However, I believe there is something useful in the abstraction of 
this intented purpose of this directory, and of books generally. By removing access to its text (as just a digital model
at this stage), the audience is forced to consider the physical directory as a historical object, and reconsider
how its data is relayed to us. When deprived of the information inside, the book's purpose is reconsidered- not for 
information, but as information. Typically, published works are analyzed historically for the style, content and 
context of the author's work, but in the absence of the text, the audience must consider the Directory itself. This 
can lead to questions about the utility and access of the book, the places it may have travelled, the process of 
its production, and most interestingly, the meaning it may have held over time. 

However, as we have discussed in class looking at THIS PERSONS work, when an object is made digital, important 
questions arise regarding what the digital object is, in relation to its source. Though created from the directory,
the ditigal object is not simply a copy, but a new object. Through digitizing the directory, I have further removed
it from its original context (which is unknown- I found it in an antique shop in Perth, and the owner had no answers 
of its origins) and, based on the criteria of this module, created a new context for it to be consumed. Its digitization
also allows it to now be consumed in ways unique to the medium (sharable on the internet, viewed through a device,
visited on sketchfab by specific audiences, etc.)

This is not to say that the use of digital media in representing the/a directory nessesarily alters the way people 
may understand and consume it. In this form and within this context (a 3D model unaltered from its Trnio creation
and accompanied with descriptive text) the digital directory, however useful its digitality may be, is not a 
departure from traditional or currently common means of representing heritage materials. In their article on Virtual
Archeology, Beale and Reilly explain the difference between borrowing digital media as a tool to present traditional
archeological work, and actually allowing the adoption of digital technologies to shape the ways in which the field 
is understood, and work practiced. The adoption of digital media does not automatically entail unique and novel ways 
of performing and understanding the field- this must be actively pursued with creativity and exploration. The same 
is true of other areas of the humanities, history and heritage included. In this way, the digital directory as it is
now, does not present a revolutionary way of understanding this heritage material. The 3D modelling does allow for an 
interactive experience with the material, but its accompnying text (this included) is a reproduction of traditional 
form (linear descriptive text), just delivered in a useful medium (the digital allowing for easy sharing, 
reproduction, etc.)



